[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What was Atlantis?
Was it a place, a culture,
and what happened to it?
I'm Timothy Hogan, grandmaster
of the Knights Templar.
>> And I'm Scott Wolter,
a forensic geologist
and a Knights Templar, and this
is Mysteries of the Knights
Templar.
[THEME MUSIC]
So the question is, who were
the medieval Knights Templar,
and who are the Templars today.
But more importantly
than that, what
is the connection between
the Templars and Atlantis,
and who better to ask that
question than the grandmaster
himself.
Tim, who were the
Knights Templar?
>> History has suggested that
it was an order founded in 1118,
specifically, to defend pilgrims
on their way to the Holy Land.
This was during the Crusades,
and pilgrims needed protection
in order to go there.
But we know, in fact,
this was actually a cover.
The Templar order was
founded because there
was a belief there was a
knowledge that there had been
a prediluvian civilization.
The Bible referred to
it as the time of Noah
and that it had collapsed
during a massive cataclysm.
Flood is how it's
described in the Bible.
Ultimately, these
Templars, they needed
to track down the
pockets of survival
of the knowledge, the
technology, the philosophies
that had been preserved from
this prediluvian civilization.
>> So what I'm hearing you
say is that Atlantis was not
necessarily a place that
sunk into the ocean.
It was a high culture.
>> Yeah, it was more
like a worldwide network
of information that was being
preserved at different parts
of the world.
And when this
cataclysm occurred,
everything fell apart.
It fell into disarray, and we
went into a very dark period
in humanity.
But the Templars understood
that if they were ever
going to bring Europe
out of the Dark Ages,
they needed to find the
remnants of this lost
civilization, the
technology, the philosophy,
and use it to spur people
into a new high culture.
>> OK, let me ask you this.
Is this a fair way to couch
this that the Crusades
and the Templars
involvement in Crusades
of capturing the Holy Land
and establishing really
which was a base of
operations so that they could
go throughout the
region to round up
some of this ancient knowledge,
this ancient information,
is that pretty much the story?
>> Yeah, while Crusaders
were busy trying to fight
for the Holy Land and
taking over territory,
the Templars were more concerned
with digging for artifacts.
>> So what it sounds like to me
is the Templars had a mission
even before the Crusades.
They knew this stuff was there.
How did they get
that information?
Did it trickle down all the
way from the time of Atlantis.
>> Well, it did.
You have to remember that
the Templars largely came out
of Albigensian families
in Southern France, which
were a Gnostic sect.
So they already
had ideas that were
contrary to the popular
establishments of the time.
>> You mean of the
Roman Catholic Church?
>> Roman Catholic Church
and the monarchies.
They were very
Democratic, and they
were open to spiritual ideas
in which the individual was
empowered.
This allowed them
to go out and try
to seek out other communities
that had these views.
In particular, there
was a tradition
that caused the Templars
to travel to Constantinople
to meet with a group
there that was known
as the Brothers of the East.
This particular group
in Constantinople
had originally come from Greece,
had been established in 1057,
and they set themselves
up in an area that
was known as the Church of
Saint Sergius and Bacchus, which
was a building designed by an
alchemist in which Pythagorean
and other ideas
were incorporated
into it, Gnostic ideas.
>> Sacred geometry.
>> Sacred geometry, absolutely.
>> So Tim, there's a pervasive
rumor within the Templar
tradition that I've
heard for years,
and I would like to get
confirmation from you.
The equilateral,
equal armed cross
that adorned the
Templars white tunics
and that they're famous for,
that's a very old symbol.
Is it true that it goes back
to the time of the Atlanteans?
>> Yeah, in fact, it's a symbol
that is found all throughout
the ancient world, in
particular, ancient Sumer.
It was something
that was utilized
by what were known
as the Anunnaki
or the gods of ancient
Sumer, but you also find it
in Egypt and other places.
And it related, specifically,
in ancient Sumer
to an alchemical science
that was known as gra.al.
>> That sounds familiar.
>> Yes.
This came to be
partially associated
with what was later to be known
as the Holy Grail right, which
the Templars were
said to be guarded.
So they adopted this symbol.
>> So a lot of people are
going to ask a question,
how did these different
traditions recognize each
other, how do they know who's
on their side and who's not.
And I think that breaks
down to signs of recognition
just like we have in
our modern Templar order
and within Freemasonry.
Correct?
>> Correct.
Yeah, there were certain signs.
There were certain
handshakes that
had been passed down
from early times
that these different Gnostic
families and traditions had
been holding on to.
So when Hugues de Payens
and Godfrey de Saint-Omer
had inherited these things,
they went to Constantinople.
They were able to exchange them
with the Brothers of the East.
In particular, there was a
Johannite tradition under a guy
by the name of Theoclite
and another man
by the name of
Michael Psellos, who
was a very famous
French philosopher.
And they had been
at Constantinople.
And they had the
blueprints for what
Hugues de Payens and
Godfrey de Saint-Omer
needed to do to form
the Templar order
and, specifically, to go to
Jerusalem for the next stage
of their mission.
>> There's documentation that
has come to me over the last 15
years.
It's called the
Cremona document.
And one part of it is
a specific narrative
that talks about Hughes de
Payens, the first grandmaster
of the Knights Templar
and five other knights who
entered under the south wall
and followed a tunnel system
and found an ancient
ritual chamber.
How old it is unknown,
but inside that chamber
they found--
or I should probably
say recovered, not
discovered artifacts that
they knew were there.
This included ancient
scrolls, ancient knowledge,
as you mentioned, technologies
in the form of instrumentation,
gold, wealth, and the remains
of a very important person
in templarism going all the way
back to the first century, John
the Baptist.
Is there a connection
between John the Baptist
in the Johannite tradition?
>> There is, in fact, the entire
Johannite tradition got its
name specifically
from John the Baptist,
who is deemed to be
the initiator of Jesus.
And according to the
Johannite tradition,
he was meant to be the leader
of this spiritual tradition.
Unfortunately, he
was taken out early,
but the Johns of the Bible were
all part of this tradition.
And it's believed that
there was a succession,
a line of succession going all
the way up to the Theoclite
in Constantinople, who then
in turned entrusted Hugh de
Payens with this same mission.
>> OK, so what you're saying is
there's a tradition that starts
with John the Baptist
comes forward all the way
to Theoclite, right.
>> Correct.
>> How about going
the other way?
Does this go all the
way back to Atlantis?
>> It does.
And this is where we go back
to some of the Babylonian
traditions that talk
about the God Oannes, who
came from the sea and
baptized priests kings
and gave them the keys
to rebuild civilization.
It was deemed that these
myths were probably
alluding to the Atlanteans,
who had survived this cataclysm
and had preserved pockets of
information and technology.
And it's worth pointing out
that the word Oannes, the name
Oannes, whose feast day in
the ancient world was June 24,
just happened to become
John the Baptist day.
- That's exactly right.
And John in Greek is Ioannis.
>> So coincidence?
>> It was a tradition.
>> Exactly.
>> It was information
being passed down.
The Templars recovered this.
They began their
archaeological digging.
For the first nine years
that they were in Jerusalem,
that's all they did was
dig under the Temple Mount.
And information that
they got from there
led them to other locations
like Egypt, Lebanon,
and other places, ultimately,
to The New World of what
was to become known as America.
>> Right.
Right.
Well, the evidence
that we see is
in the form of Templar
graffiti carved all
over the Middle East region.
>> That's correct.
They met with people
like the Sabeans
in Northern Turkey,
who were preserving
a whole tradition in
the area that we now
refer to as Gobekli Tepe, which
had the seeds of civilization
being preserved there, all the
way down into Egypt in places
like Abydos, where
they were meeting
with Coptic Christians, which
was a different tradition.
And then within
Jerusalem itself as they
were digging into the Temple
Mount and other places, one
of the things that came across--
and this is from
traditional Jewish sources--
is they came across
certain jars.
And as they opened
up these jars much
like we find with the Dead
Sea Scrolls or the Nag Hammadi
library, they discovered
these new texts, which
what we now know is, were
the Zohar, the text known
as the fundamental
aspects of the Zohar.
>> So this would have been the
Genesis of Jewish mysticism,
the Zohar?
>> Absolutely.
Not only was it the Genesis
of Jewish mysticism,
but there was
information in the Zohar
that pointed to land on the
other side of the ocean.
In fact, they talked about
other continents and the Earth
being round and
where people lived.
And this was fundamental
to the Templars
in their discoveries of what
there was to follow thereafter,
including going
to the New World.
>> OK.
Just recently some
images were shared
with me and some drone
footage of a site that's
2 and 1/2 miles away
from Gobekli Tepe.
And we've now coined the phrase
for this site Templar Tepe
because there are a couple of
walls with Templar graffiti
carvings that are undeniable,
unmistakable, which tells us
the tradition was there.
The question is,
what were they doing.
Was it somehow connected
to Gobekli Tepe?
And I think the
prevailing wisdom now
is pretty much universal
that Gobekli Tepe was
an ancient observatory
dating back
to the time of the Atlanteans
because you mentioned
this catastrophic event
that didn't completely
destroy the culture,
significantly
reduced it almost
down to nothing.
And what we see at Gobekli Tepe
is this incredible observatory
was intentionally buried.
Archaeologists are saying
it was intentionally
buried at the very same time
of this catastrophic event that
has now been labeled the
Younger Dryas impact event.
>> That's right.
Well, and it just so happens
that this Younger Dryas impact
event, as it's being called
now, falls exactly in line
with the time frame of
when Plato specifically
said Atlantis collapsed.
And not only that,
but we find remnants
of that same story being
preserved at Edfu in Egypt
talking about this
great cataclysm
and how long ago it
was, and it falls in
with that exact
same time period.
What we understand
now as Templars
was that as that
civilization collapsed,
the technology had
to go into hiding.
It had to be preserved
in different areas.
And certainly, places like
Lebanon and Egypt and Jerusalem
became fertile places
to preserve this stuff
at that time.
And one of the things that
was found by the Templars
was a series of arks,
which are now associated
with arks of the Covenant.
>> Wait a minute
a series of arks?
I thought the ark was
just the ark, the one ark.
>> No, there were multiple arks.
In fact, some traditions
say that there
may be as many as 100.
The Templar order has found
evidence of at least 10,
but they recovered
6, and they knew
that these things couldn't fall
into the hands of the power
structures of the day.
So they had to go into hiding.
So there was a great effort on
the part of the Templar order
to take these arks and
try to understand them,
how they worked, and it turns
out these arks what they really
were was giant capacitors.
They could generate
electricity, and they
were filled with a
superconductive substance,
which the Bible refers to as--
>> Manna.
>> Manna, that's right.
And manna in Hebrew
just means "what is it?"
And we know now it was
probably named this
because when you
test this substance,
it doesn't show up as anything.
Like, most tests are done with
spectroscopic analysis or--
>> Infrared spectrometer,
X-ray diffraction.
>> Right.
Back then they
would do a burn test
to see what color the
flame was, but this
didn't show up as anything.
But it had these
unusual properties.
And since they couldn't tell
what it was, what is it.
>> OK, here's the
big question though.
You said the manna was
the power source, right,
and that these were
capacitors, batteries.
What did they run?
>> Thing that we think is
it was probably broadcasted
electricity throughout the
planet from the old Atlantean
tradition.
They probably was a world grid
network, electricity being
broadcasted around the world.
And when this
cataclysm happened,
it just shut that all off.
So they were able to
preserve the capacitors,
and that's about it.
>> But the grid was shut down.
>> The grid was shut down.
And the Templars
were wise enough
to recognize, OK, this
happened in antiquity.
It could happen again.
They had the mission of
trying to rebuild civilization
to where Atlantis was before
recognizing that civilization
is fragile, and it
could fall apart.
So they had to preserve the
keys to rebuild civilization
again and again.
When civilization
collapsed, there
was an attempt to try to
preserve what they could.
Some of this not only
included these arks,
but they also
included instructions
for government, Democratic
ideas, power of the individual,
the connection of the
individual to God,
and that the source
of who we really are
is connected to the
creator and that everybody
through their own efforts
could connect with that.
This was the basis of what
empowered democracy originally.
>> So really what you're
talking about is something that
we've all heard that
resonates with all humans,
that we are all born
with inalienable rights--
>> That's right.
>> --as humans when we
come into this world,
that we all have a basic list
of things that we are entitled
to just being here, right.
>> That's exactly right.
And so the Templars tried to
preserve that and establish
that.
There were maps
of the old world.
In fact, many of these maps
that the Templars were creating
and that the Templars
also inherited
were later to
become known as what
Admiral Piri Reis of Turkey or
the Ottoman Empire at the time
was cataloging.
And he even said, hey, he got
these maps from earlier maps.
Well, these were Templar maps
that had been being preserved.
>> One of the things that's
always fascinated me is
the Piri Reis map.
And there are things on that
map that shouldn't be there.
>> Yeah, he had cataloged
things prior to Columbus,
including Antarctica
without ice,
and also the entire
South American area.
And this seems to
suggest information
that had been preserved from
a previous civilization.
>> If you're talking about
Antarctica being mapped without
ice, you're talking
a long time ago.
>> Probably what happened was
there was even a tradition from
before Atlantis that was
preserving this information.
These are part of
the cache of things
that the Templars discovered.
>> Let me guess.
Piri Reis probably
a Templar, huh?
>> Well, he, certainly,
came out of that tradition.
You got to remember he was
in Constantinople right
where the Brothers of the East
were, right where the Templar
order was secretly founded.
And this was the center
of commerce at the time.
It was the center of the world.
And this is where information
was being brought back to.
>> The other thing that's really
interesting about the Templars,
something I've paid a lot of
attention to and studied myself
are these round churches
that were used for--
well I should call
them chapels, right.
>> Observatory chapels.
>> Yeah.
Laboratory astronomical
chapels that actually
were observatories that
were mapping the heavens.
And what we now
know is that there's
a system of churches on the
island of Bornholm in Denmark
in Europe that they have now
figured out by using long range
alignments in the heavens
to be able to calculate
the circumference of the Earth.
Now this may not
seem like a big deal.
But when you are
a Maritime culture
and you're traveling
on the ocean,
one of the most important
things you need to know
is how far is it
to my destination.
That'll allow you to plan
accordingly with food and water
and people, and it's going to
give you a tremendous advantage
over anyone else if you
know how big the Earth is
and how far away things are.
>> They also began to encounter
a number of different cultures
that most people in Europe at
the time had never encountered.
And these included groups like
the Druze, the [NON-ENGLISH]..
There were Islamic sects
that were mystical in nature.
Now we would refer
to them as Sufi.
There were Druid
traditions, and there
were traditions within
Lebanon that were really
inheritors of
Phoenician traditions
and Canaanite traditions.
And in their associations
with these groups
and in their travels in
Egypt, there was one thing
that they found amongst
them all that was secretly
being passed down, and it
was this science that we now
refer to as alchemy.
>> Alchemy.
>> Yeah, and we know now,
especially you find this
in Egypt at places like Abydos,
where the Templars set up
headquarters.
They also set up
commanderies at Philae,
at Dendera, at Edfu and a number
of different places in Egypt.
But particularly, at
Abydos and even at Luxor
itself and Karnak,
there are depictions
of alchemical processes.
And in particular, there's
depictions of these arks,
and there's depictions
of the manna.
That manna putting in
there was the catalyst
for the ark to
work, and this manna
had to be made alchemically.
When it was produced--
>> How do you make manna?
What does it come from?
>> Well, it comes from
just about everything,
but you have to be able to
calcinate it down and then
extract it out of the ashes.
We're going to pour that
ashy lye into this to filter.
Make sure the pH
is nice and high.
I'm going to add an acid to it,
taking something from above 12,
and we're dropping it down.
You can see there's
stuff starting to form.
We're going to do this eight
times just to clean it.
So it becomes this
self-contained atom
that it becomes
completely captured,
and it doesn't
bind with anything.
And this was the moment.
You could also convert
certain platinum metals
into manna, which we
believe this is really
what Moses was
doing when he burned
the Golden calf into a
white powder and to feed
to the wandering Hebrews.
>> But it was an allegorical
reference to the alchemical
science that he was performing,
but it had to be veiled.
>> Absolutely.
And we see this depiction
on the Egyptian temple walls
as well of where the
pharaoh was being
fed these cakes that looked
like they were cone shapes.
And they're usually depicted
right next to these ark boxes,
and they're being fed to the
pharaoh as this special food
that kept him
healthy and that they
were being stored
in these arks, which
generated the electricity.
>> But let's go
back for a second.
I want to understand exactly how
does manna work inside the ark
to create this power cell.
So what this manna is,
it's platinum metals
that are in a monoatomic state.
So what that means
is each atom doesn't
bind with the other
atoms, and it does this
because it's in a high
spin state, what's
known as a high
spin state, the two
outer electrons and the
atom enter into what's
known as a Cooper pair.
And when they do that, they
go into this high spin state.
They're completely captured
by the nucleus of the atom,
and they don't bind
with the other atoms,
like, they normally would.
When this happens, they enter
into a superconductive state,
and it just so
happens that when you
have a container full of
manna, these monoatomic atoms
if you subjected to a
very weak electrostatic
or electromagnetic field--
>> The spark if you will.
>> The spark, it ends up causing
the container filled with manna
to weigh less than the same
container filled with nothing.
So there's an anti-gravity
effect that's--
>> A levitation effect.
>> Levitation effect.
And this is the reason
why the ark in the Bible
is guarded by the Levites
from which we get the word
levitation later on and that two
Levites could carry these arks
with rods even though the
amount of gold and acacia wood
that was put into
building these arks
would have caused the ark
to weigh several tons.
But two people could carry
it as long as it had a charge
and as long as these
monoatomic atoms,
this manna was inside of it.
>> OK, so what you're saying is
they basically had the ability
with manna when it was super
charged to cause things
to levitate.
Could this be the secret to
the massive megalithic blocks
that we find all over the world
that have been cut and placed.
And seemingly it is
impossible that any humans
with the technology
that we thought
they had in the
distant past actually
could have been moved this way.
>> Yeah, we think so.
In fact, it's even possible
that they may have just taken
one of these arks,
bound it to the stone,
and then that helped to cause
the weightlessness of the stone
itself.
So at that point, then
they could move the stones
any way they needed to.
As the Templars started
discovering these things
and figuring how it worked, they
realized this was a technology
that it was godlike power.
So they knew if these
fell into the wrong hands,
they could be abused.
And so at this
point the Templars
had a strong mission
to move these arks
and these other artifacts out
of the areas of Jerusalem,
of Egypt, and other
areas, move them
through Lebanon into places like
Portugal, France, ultimately,
Scotland and then
from there move it on
over to the Americas,
which they had,
of course, by this point
had already been mapping
and knew about.
>> They knew all about it.
Well, let's just talk
about the elephant
in the room to this whole
plan that the Templars had,
and that's the Roman
Catholic Church, right.
And it brings to mind
their strategy was
something analogous to
keep your friends close.
Keep your enemies closer.
And I think really
that's exactly what
was going on at least for
the Templar leadership.
And by aligning with the
church and giving them
the impression that
they were on their side
was what allowed them to
have the freedom that they
did to round this stuff up with
the ultimate plan of bringing
it to North America.
And I agree with you.
I think that's exactly
what was going on.
>> And the Templars would
throw the church a bone.
Every once in a
while, the Templars
were responsible for
starting to build
the cathedrals for the church.
But even on the cathedrals,
they tried to carve and preserve
this information much
like the Egyptians had
done in earlier times.
So even to this day, there's
Pythagorean concepts,
Gnostic concepts,
alchemical information.
You go to the front doors
of Notre Dame Cathedral,
for example, there's a
series of plate medallions
that show all the stages
of the alchemical process.
Well, this is part of
what the Templars were
trying to preserve.
They also brought
over iconography.
For example, the Templar
headquarters at Philae in Egypt
was the Temple of Isis.
And in this Temple of Isis
not only on the temple walls
but also on the altars, there
were these black basalt statues
of the goddess Isis nursing
the young child Horus.
>> Which is identical to images
of Mother Mary nursing Jesus.
>> That's exactly, right.
So the Templars brought
that iconography over.
They gave it a new facelift.
And to preserve
the memory of it,
they carved what were to
become known as the Black
Madonnas, which were this same
iconography but painted black,
so they looked like
the statues in Egypt,
and placed them in the
crypts under the cathedrals
that they were building.
>> So Tim, here's
what I think we have.
We go back to the time of
the Younger Dryas period.
Prior to that, we
had a high culture
that exists that preserved
ancient knowledge just
in case something happened.
And I don't think
it was just in case.
I think they knew something
catastrophic was coming.
I think Gobekli Tepe
being covered up
is a powerful piece of
evidence to support that.
And so they preserve
this information.
And the survivors of that
catastrophe lived on.
And eventually, the tradition,
the Templar tradition
starting around the year
1000 or just after acquired
this knowledge,
knew that they had
to form a Templar order
that would go in and align
with the Roman church,
go into Jerusalem,
round up the stuff
that they needed,
find that old hidden knowledge
and information, technology
that was left by the
Atlanteans, take that knowledge,
use it to acquire the strength,
the power to eventually bring
it over to North America.
Is that a decent synopsis?
>> Not only that, but they
wanted to re-establish
the Atlantean tradition in order
to recreate what had once been.
It had been lost but
now had been found.
>> So really Francis Bacon
was the one who wrote the new
Atlantis.
>> He was a Templar, and that
whole book that he wrote was,
specifically, an outline to
rebuild these technologies that
had been discovered
by the Templars.
>> So Francis Bacon, he was
in on the secret, wasn't he?
>> He was yeah.
>> And so what that means is
the United States of America is
the new Atlantis.
>> Absolutely.
>> I'm Scott Wolter.
>> And I'm Timothy Hogan.
And Thanks for watching
this episode of Mysteries
of the Knights Templar.
[MUSIC PLAYING]